My mind what ego is, you think that
you're so good at something
that you stop learning.
>> How does a software engineer end up
as the CEO of one of the largest
trucking companies in the world?
>> Well, I think engineering
gives you a very good road map and a
very good framework of solving problems.
I have young kids and I always tell them
whenever we have a something gets broken
or something we want to build, I always
tell them what the engineers do.
We say they build things and they fix
things.
And I think in the world of business,
you're dealing every day with with
either problems or goals you want to
accomplish.
And the engineering mindset gives you a
framework of how to solve for these
problems. If you think of the
engineering design process, it's based
on one identifying a problem or a goal.
Then it's about collecting a lot of data
around that particular problem or goal,
then defining your requirements, then
designing and building a solution, and
then eventually testing it for what the
outcome would look like. And that
discipline and rational thinking and
data-driven analysis actually helps you
in being able to run a company.
Now, the other side of that though is
around people skills because when you
run a company, you're effectively you
have teams of people
and your goal is to make sure that they
are the best versions of themselves.
And applying engineering principles to
that also helps a lot. So then your team
becomes very data-driven. Your team
becomes problem-solvers in terms of how
being able to go from point A to point B
or whatever again whether whether it's a
goal, whether it's a problem you want to
solve as well. So I think these are some
of the early innings in terms of as I
grew in my career, engineering gave me
that that framework to be able to solve
problems and achieve goals. Couple that
with people skills, this what has
enabled me to effectively run a trucking
company.
>> Wait a second. How does that engineering
mindset help you as the CEO?
>> As a CEO, your first goal is to actually
figure out what is your overall
strategy. How are you going to be able
to create a lot of shareholder value?
Are you going to be able to create a
company that can grow earnings that can
and ultimately deliver a lot of
shareholder value.
To be able to deliver that as you define
your strategy, you have to have a
framework by which you define a
strategy.
Now once you have your strategy, you
have certain elements associated with
that where you have certain KPIs that
you are monitoring on a daily, weekly,
monthly basis of whether you get you are
achieving the levels of the strategy.
Then from that for every KPI in terms of
being able to define how you go from one
value to another value, you need an
action plan. You need a solution for
that. So that engineering mindset is a
problem-solving mindset. And whether
it's defining strategy, whether it's
executing on levels of your strategy, an
engineering mindset is going to enable
you to deliver on those on those
outcomes over over a period of time. So
so I think that discipline and grounding
your decisions in data does help you
help make you an effective CEO. Now that
on its own goes at odds with being able
to manage people because as an engineer,
you're thinking perfection. You're
thinking the process has to work just
right. But the reality is people don't
operate that way. So I think engineering
on its own gives you a framework.
However, how you can transform or
translate that framework and how you
manage people and love people and
believe in them and believe what's
invest in them is the other ingredient
to be able to then
enable you to deliver good outcomes.
>> What surprised you the most about people
coming from an engineering background
where things are sort of predictable?
>> Well, first I I'll start by
introspecting, looking at myself as a as
a person.
As I was growing up, I remember I always
used to think that perfection
is It's good thing. So every time I was
set to work on a certain project, on a
certain task, that the outcome has to be
perfect, that the outcome and you tell
yourself in your own mind these things
that, you know, like this is not good
enough. It can be better than that. Or
you're building a piece of software.
This piece of software has to be just
exactly right. The code has to be
simple. It should not have any bugs in
it. And I think the human mind typically
doesn't operate in in perfection. We all
have our own idiosyncrasies. We all have
our own biases. We all have our own way
of doing things. So, for me in terms of
managing people, a lot of it goes back
to looking at how they view solving a
problem, how they look at the world, how
they look at being able to deliver
value, how they look at being able to
treat others with respect. And I think
what surprised me that most is that you
have every person is different. And
every person in their own way, they are
beautiful. Their mind works in a
beautiful way. And being able to take
their own methods, their own way of
thinking, believing in what's best in
them,
is what creates the most amount of
outcome. And it's also a pleasure
because then you're effectively working
with a group of smart people who are
finding their own way to be the best
version of themselves.
And I think not applying one framework
or one method to solving a problem is
important.
>> You're employee three at XPO and you got
to work with one of the greatest capital
allocators and entrepreneurs of our
generation with in Brad Jacobs. I'm
curious what you learned from him.
>> Well, well, Brad is one of a kind. He's
somebody who started eight multi-billion
dollar companies from scratch
and in different industries.
And a lot of it goes back to having a a
framework, a method. And he actually
wrote two books where he outlines that
framework in terms of how to build great
companies, companies that endure the
test of time. And ultimately, the goal
of a company is to create shareholder
value. And these companies have created
a tremendous amount of shareholder
value. So, I learned from him. Now,
everything you read in the book is
actually part of the framework in terms
of how you think about one setting very
big goals for the business, thinking
outside of the box of how you can
deliver a large amount of value.
And number two is actually that in our
case and the case of the companies he
has built, a lot of it the early was
around M&A and M&A integration and how
you allocate capital in a very effective
way, whether you buy a company at a
lower multiple than what your company is
trading at, but a company that has a
good strategic outcome for what you are
trying to build to build as well. But if
I go back to what I learned from him, I
mean, I learned a tremendous amount in
more than a than a decade, but probably
number one I would say is to always
think big.
Don't set small goal. Life is short. Set
big goals, whether it's how much value
you're creating, whether how much
profits you're growing, whether a
certain project that you think needs 3
years to get done and how you can get it
done in 3 months. Set big goals and do
that at work, do that in your personal
life, because when you set big goals,
you achieve great things. If you set
small goals, you achieve small small
things. And that's probably the number
one thing I learned I learned from him.
>> What would be number two? What would be
the second thing that comes to mind that
maybe not is in any of his books?
>> Number two I would say is actually how
you manage people, how you actually who
you surround yourself with.
And to have a very disciplined approach
to look at the people who are around
you, that you have a team, because
ultimately in business, you don't go at
it alone. You have a group of people and
you want them to work collegious
collegially, as a team, as a group of
people who support each other,
who want to
following a certain strategy, a certain
framework, want to go achieve great
things, want want the competition, want
to win. And effectively, how you
surround yourself with people, how you
actually create a team environment that
is very constructive, how you get
feedback loops, so you're always looking
at whether it's the plan or the
strategy, you're always adjusting in
some cases in small areas, in some cases
in big areas to be able to get to better
outcomes. But I would say the team
dynamic and how you capture feedback
loop is is number two.
>> Talk to me about that a little more
because it seems like everybody hears
this, you know, who you surround
yourself with matters in life and
matters in work and I would love for you
to just riff on that more for a minute
in terms of the quality of people.
>> If you look at this what who we hire for
as an organization, but how we think
about the team, the team as well.
Generally, we break it down into three
broad categories and this is the work
side, but some of these carry over to
the personal side and who you have
personal relationships with.
But number one at work would be
are they good at what they do?
Or do they have a high intellect? Do
they have a passion for whatever
area of expertise that they have
developed in?
Are they really good at what they do?
Number two is are they serious about
work? Are they hard workers? Are they
are somebody who and it doesn't mean
that you have to, you know, work 90-hour
weeks, but it means that when you wake
up in the morning, do you take the
mission of the company, the mission of
your role to heart where you want to
actually maximize the outputs of what
you do every single day?
And the third one is are you collegial?
Are you somebody who gets along with the
rest of the team, who try to look for
what's best in the team? And along with
that come things like kindness and
humility and being able to always strive
to learn and effectively always better
yourself and better people who are who
are around you.
And when you have a combination of these
attributes in a person, now, it's not
every person in different environments
could behave or could have different
different you could have different
outputs as well. But when you put that
together
and you create alignment on what the
mission is,
it's truly remarkable what you can
deliver. If you look at sports team,
sports team that have one star player
only, but they don't have a good strong
cohesive team, they don't deliver a lot
of value.
Business is exactly the same way. It's
about having a team of people who are
working well with each other,
who are aligned on the goals,
who respect each other, but at the same
time who push each other as well. It's
okay to have some friction. It's okay
that somebody's telling you, "Hey, I
think in your area you can do X, Y, or Z
in a in a better way." That's all good,
but this is
the framework of of of of people at from
a from a business perspective. In your
personal life, I think some of the
things around kindness and humility and
being collegial, all of that translates
as well.
If you surround yourself with people who
are actually who bring the vibe of the
party up, who are loving people, who are
affectionate people,
that's going to add that's going to
enrich your own life as you think about
it.
>> So often people assume that means
consensus.
What does gets along mean? The third
aspect of what you just talked about.
What does that mean in practice?
>> What it means in practice, by the way,
it's not necessarily consensus from the
onset. Because in business as in life,
whenever you are trying to solve for
something big or something small,
whenever you have something that as a
team you want to address.
I usually worry if I'm in a team meeting
and everybody is aligned on a solution.
And the reason why, because the first
question I ask myself,
did we look at that problem or that
solution in 10 different ways to then
have different perspectives of how to
solve that problem? Because if you want
to create alpha, it's not about only
settling for a local maximum. It's about
looking at a problem from different
angles and being able to get different
voices around how to solve that problem,
analyzing each one of them, having data
behind each one of these perspectives,
and then being able to land the plane on
what is the right outcome to get to the
right place. So, getting along, however,
is that we can disagree. We can disagree
on You might think that's this solution
is better than my solution or vice
versa. However,
it's a very respectful disagreement.
It's a disagreement where when we leave
that room,
after debating, after looking at the
numbers, after looking at the data, we
all agreed that this is the go forward
path that would lead to the best
solution to whatever problem or whatever
thing that you're trying to solve for.
>> Where would you say that you and Brad
are different?
>> Of course, it's very tough to compare
yourself to somebody who who's I mean he
he's he's one of a kind. I mean, he's
somebody who started eight multi-billion
dollar companies. I think it's more
around every person is also different in
how and how they were brought up and how
they think about problem-solving. So, I
think it's more that a lot of the
methods that I learned from him, you
always have slightly different ways in
how you apply them based on who you are
as a person.
>> One of the changes you've made
since you took over is to have a
service-first philosophy. So, it seems
like a bit of a strategy
change. Uh talk to me about that.
>> What we've always had is service-focused
culture. The way we think about it in
business,
your customers are everything.
Ultimately, a customer has a choice. A
customer can either decide to use you or
use one of your competitors for the
service that you are providing. But what
was different is that we actually split
the company into three pieces, and now
the entire management team was focused
effectively on our less-than-truckload
business. And part of our strategy was
to make sure that we are delivering the
best service possible for the customer.
Because ultimately in business, you have
to make a very conscious choice about
what is your product that you are
selling to the customer?
In our business,
a higher service level
enables you to sell supplemental
services to the customer, and these
typically come at a higher margin. It
also enables you to gain more profitable
market share because your customers want
to do business with you.
And what we have done effectively was
meaningfully improve our service product
through the through the years, and this
has led to effectively us being able to
either gain market share or expand
margin with customers as well. Now,
these things in business are easier said
than done, because especially in
trucking, we have 40,000 people in the
company. Here in North America, we have
about 23,000 people. So, you are
influencing the behavior of tens of
thousands of people in terms of every
time they touch a customer, they touch a
customer's freight, that they want to
handle it as if it's as if as if it's
our own, as if it's as going to our own
house. And that has a cultural
component, has compensation components,
has systems components, how we track it,
how we hold people accountable to it,
has investments that we have made in
multiple tools along along the way as
well. And we've improved our service
product tremendously through the years.
>> You're in meetings all day. You're
trying to stay present, but you're also
worried you'll forget the decision, the
action item, the important next step.
That's where Granola comes in. Granola
is an AI-powered notepad for meetings.
You jot down rough notes like you always
do, and in the background, Granola
transcribes and turns them into clear,
useful notes when the meeting ends.
There are no bots joining your calls, no
distractions, just a clean notepad that
helps you focus. During or after the
call, you can chat with your notes. You
can ask Granola to pull out action
items, help you negotiate, make a
decision, write a follow-up email, and
so much more. I even use it when I'm
listening to podcasts. Once you try it
on a first meeting, it's hard to go
without. Head to granola.ai/shane
and get 3 months free with the code
shane. That's granola.ai/shane.
The sponsor of this show is CoinShares.
While most of the industry was still
arguing about whether digital assets
were legitimately CoinShares was quietly
building the infrastructure to invest in
them properly. They now manage over 6
billion in assets and have stayed
profitable through every market cycle.
Fully regulated with the kind of
transparency and governance that serious
investors actually expect. Whether it's
crypto ETFs, active strategies, or
Bitcoin mining ETF exposure, you can
access all of it through your existing
brokerage account. CoinShares, the
adults have arrived. Learn more at
coinshares.com. This is not investment
advice.
Let's dive into a little bit about how
you run the business. Last time we
chatted, you mentioned you sort of had
this operating system behind the scenes
where you could dial into any of your
40,000 employees and see how productive
they were up to the minute. Tell me
about how you run the company and more
about that.
>> So, I think high-level, if if you break
it down, as a business, we have a plan.
We have a strategy. And by the way, your
plan cannot be very rigid. You have to
be open to change that over time as new
information comes up as you execute on
it. But that plan has high big or big
levers of how you're going to improve
the profitability of the company
ultimately and how you're going to
create shareholder value subsequently as
as a result of that.
Now, for each one of these big levers,
then you have a number of KPIs that you
are driving to be able to deliver on
that on that particular lever. So,
number one is actually defining what is
it that you want to achieve.
And for each one of these levers, what
are the KPIs that would lead to that
particular outcome. So, number one is
having a set of systems where actually
it's daily, we obsess over them. I mean,
every single day, there's approximately
10 KPIs that that we that we monitor.
And for each one of those KPIs, not only
we look at the first derivative, change
of that KPI, a first derivative is it's
up 5%, it's up 2%, it's down 2%, but
also what the second derivative looks
like, which is what's the slope, what's
the rate of change. Is that KPI
accelerating in the direction you want
it to, or is it decelerating in the
direction of in the the opposite
direction? And then for each one of
those, you have an action plan, a list
of projects or initiatives or actions
that you are taking to take that
particular KPI from point A where you
are today to point B where you want it
to be.
So, part of running the business on a
daily basis is being able to again
identify the goals,
have the key performance indicators that
you are watching every single day,
obsess over them on a daily, weekly,
monthly basis, and we have different set
of whether it's meetings or processes to
to manage through that. And then
eventually looking at the action plans,
the inputs, what are you do what are you
doing differently to be able to get that
KPI from that point to that point. Now,
to do this effectively, you need great
systems, Shane, because without the
ability to get real-time information,
you're not going to be able to make a
change quickly enough in some cases to
address whether it's shortcomings or
whether something accelerating beyond
what you expected and being able to
control that. But I think it's one
having a platform that where you can get
that data in real time. Number two is
having a very clear what is it that you
are monitoring every day that aligns
with your big strategic goals that would
enable you to create a ton of
shareholder value over time. And then
managing the inputs from a action plan
perspective of who's responsible for
each one of these actions to be able to
actually improve how we move the
business forward in the right direction.
So, that's the framework. That's
effectively on on that portion. The
second portion of it though that goes
back to the people. So, I spent a lot of
time in the field. I actually like to go
to our docks, to our terminals, where I
get to sit with our drivers and dock
workers. And usually I go there early in
the morning and I sit in the break room.
And I sit with our drivers and I tell
them tell me what's going on in the
business. Tell me what's working well,
what's not working well. So, there's a
people component of it of how you can
keep on getting that feedback loop of
how to do things in a more effective way
and a more structured framework of how
you can actually get to the best
outcomes based on on what I just
mentioned.
>> What do you learn in the break rooms
that you don't see in the KPIs?
>> It's truly remarkable.
So, when you look at our say our
workforce here in North America, we have
about 23,000 people. 18,000 out of the
23,000 are either truck drivers or dock
workers. They are people who are They
are the folks who are the closest to the
customer. So, each one of our city
drivers or pick up and delivery drivers
is interacting with half a dozen to a
dozen customers per day.
And if you think about their feedback,
you get real-time feedback on decisions
we are making and how to make them
better. But, to give you an example, it
could be small things. It could be
things like the type of tires we're
using, the type of parts we are putting
in our trucks, what kind of trucks we
are buying and what makes a difference
versus not, to having issues at the
local service center, all the way to our
compensation programs, our benefit
programs, how we compare to the peer
group, how are we doing from a service
perspective, what are some of the tweaks
we can be doing in our processes and
procedures to improve the business. We
get feedback on technology, the
handhelds that they use, how we can make
them better, how we can make them more
efficient. It's truly remarkable. What I
typically do is actually have a notebook
with me and every time I hear all these
ideas, I write them down.
And then when I get back to the office,
we actually put them in a email that I
sent to the top 100 people in the
organization and say these are the
things that I learned from the people
who matter most in our company. They are
the ones who are actually moving the
freight for the customer.
And that leads to better action plans
and in some cases we change the action
plans that can impact the output
metrics. And in some cases we actually
change strategy or we add a lever to the
strategy or we do things a bit
differently there as well.
>> Is there an example that comes to mind
of something you've heard in a break
room and you were like, "Oh, we need to
pivot. Like it's not working."
>> I'll give you a couple of examples. The
first one was around when we were on a
very strong journey of improving our
service product. One of the first things
that we did was change compensation
plans. So effectively it as opposed to
compensation be driven only by growing
say revenue and profits to have a
portion of the compensation plan to be
driven by improving our service product
to the customer. And you can think of
that as being the carrot. By improving
service you as a say supervisor on the
dock can effectively bring home more
pay. But when we talked to our drivers a
lot of it went back to accountability.
What they were telling us, "Well, you
know
I I take care of the freight of the
customer but so-and-so on the dock is
actually they're not taking care of the
freight for the customer." So then we
built systems where we can actually
track back our service performance to
the person level.
And then we actually created coaching so
that if you cause a damage as a person
on our docks then you can actually go
into a specific training program and get
coached to make sure that doesn't happen
in the future as an example.
>> Wait a second. How does the system
detect my performance?
>> Every time we move a pallet across our
network you have people who are
interacting with that. By the way, you
need a really good systemic platform.
You need a platform that is modern that
can actually get data directly from a
handheld device a user can using into a
system that you can then aggregate and
take action on. The way it works usually
if let's say I'm a dock worker and I see
that a pallet is damaged I take a photo
of that pallet and I say I saw that this
pallet is damaged. Now, in some cases it
could be a smallish shrink wrap having a
small scratch on it as as an example.
But then we know who the last person
that handled that pallet was.
When the customer gets that pallet, if
the customer says, you know, this is a
scratch, it's fine, then effectively no
no harm no foul. If the customer gets
that pallet and the customer says, "My
freight is damaged." Now we can track it
back to the last person who reported
that damage and who was the person
before them who handled that freight.
That's historically how we did that. But
now moving forward, what we're also
doing, we're actually using AI for that
purpose. So every time we close a
trailer door,
a supervisor takes a photo of the
trailer
and we're using AI to inform the quality
of loading to be able to say that this
pallet was not strapped to the wall of
the trailer, which means it could tip
over and it could cause a damage as as
an example. So we're also using
technology to be able to have a much
better identification on what shift
something happened, but also tying it
back to the person that could have
caused that that particular damage in
that case.
>> Is that real time? So like when I take
that photo, it reminds me of something
or is it um sort of post when we
aggregate the data the next day, you're
like, "Hey, this truck went out
yesterday. You didn't see this. Uh just
a reminder to
strap it down better."
>> Historically, we've done it where you
are looking at it after the fact. So
historically, we we manage all that data
through the shift. You are still getting
it in the system in real time, but the
person taking the photo was not getting
immediate feedback. So
let's say I'm a supervisor.
As I close the trailer door of a given
trailer, I would take a photo and then I
would actually rank the the quality of
loading of that particular photo. So in
that case, it's not AI doing it. And
then the next day we can tell which
super because then the next person in
line and I would our terminal network
when they open up your trailer they take
a photo and they rank your quality of
loading. So you're effectively getting
somebody if you think about software
development it's almost like doing a
code review but you're doing a trailer
review for the next person who's
actually opening up opening up that
trailer. But now with AI with the new
versions we are launching we actually
are intended it's not it's not live yet
it's going to go live over the next few
months but effectively as a supervisor
whenever I take the photo AI
automatically tells you what it found
wrong in your trailer and now we can
actually fix that before you actually
send that trailer on the over the road.
And just for context how many trailer
openings and closings are we talking a
day in the company? Looking at tens of
thousands. And the reason that this
matters is to reduce the damage is
that's one of your biggest costs is that
do I understand that correctly? So the
reason if you think about our service
any any trucking company one is making
sure because as a less than truckload
carrier what we do is a customer could
be shipping one or two pallets but then
we get it to one of our terminals where
we consolidate that freight with other
people's pallets effectively. So you and
then you're moving that freight across a
network of 300 locations across North
America. So part one of the KPIs would
be we call it service quality which is
not damaging the freight because when
you are consolidating and
deconsolidating freight that could lead
to quality issues as people handle that
freight over a long distance. So that's
one measure. The second measure is
providing on time service that when the
if the customer is expecting a pick up
today that you pick up that freight when
it is intended to be picked up and then
if they're expecting it to be a
destination in three days from now that
you're getting it three days from now as
well. But these are the two primary
measure of how we measure the service
quality or the service for for a given
customer.
And less than truckload is sort of 100
lb to 15,000 lb is that somewhere so I
would average weight per shipment is
approximately, call it 1,400 lb and it
varies in the range that you mentioned.
So, a couple hundred pounds all the way
to 10,000 plus pounds, but usually once
you start getting to 15,000, it makes
sense to send that on a full truckload
where you are booking an entire truck
effectively to go from point A to point
B.
>> And if I was an employee and I'm working
there and I'm on the dock and I want to
see my specific performance or a driver,
can I do that?
>> 100%. So, the way we make it work and we
implemented those tools as well. And you
know, there's one thing, everybody goes
to work every day wanting to do a good
job. And when you get feedback and
positive reinforcement, obviously you're
going to do it in a more effective way.
But every time one of our
drivers or dock workers scans a pallet
on the dock, they automatically see two
dials on their handheld. The first one
tells them what their productivity is
versus their peers, so they can see
effectively, if you had 10 people
working the dock, are they number one or
are they number five? And if you're
number one, there's a lot of bragging
rights that go along with that, but
that's more on the productivity side.
And then the second dial shows them how
many damages they could have caused by
either not strapping the pallets or not.
So, every time you scan a pallet to move
it across our docks from one trailer to
another trailer, we actually show folks
what their numbers would look like. And
similarly, the supervisors, they have a
system as well, very modern platform,
all proprietary, our own engineers build
build these solutions where effectively
they can see then the performance across
the entire
workforce or a or a certain shift and
how they can actually manage that more
effectively.
>> That is so cool. I can see how some
people wouldn't like it though. What is
the response been like?
>> Overall, the response is very good, but
there's a there's a reason for that. It
all depends what you do with the
information.
It all depends what you do with it. If
let's say somebody causes a damage and
you're coaching them and telling them
where they went wrong and how they can
do better, that's a very uplifting
experience. Let's say I've been on the
job for 3 months or 6 months, I've been
trained, but at the same time
it still takes that that muscle memory
to be better. That enables us to coach
and train that person how they can be
better at what they do. And usually
people when they get better, they they
actually see that very very positively
as well. So, I think it all depends how
you use the information. If you use it
just to hold people accountable and have
a very strict rules, then of course, you
know, you're not going to have a lot of
satisfaction with that. If you're using
it as a way to elevate your team, to
coach them, to teach them how to do
things in a better way, that can be very
uplifting.
>> How do you run meetings internally?
>> It depends on the meeting. Different
meetings have different different
structures.
But generally, every meeting starts with
obviously every meeting has a certain
set of goals. Usually, a lot of our
meetings starts by being very grounded
in data, where we send all the materials
ahead of time to the meeting attendees.
Now, not every meeting is that way, but
if you think about monthly operating
reviews or weekly staff meetings, all of
these are effectively the material is
sent ahead of time, which has a lot of
information going back to what I
mentioned about the KPIs, about every
KPI, how it's trending, and then
reviewing the action plans associating
with making that KPI get to a better
outcome for the for the company as a
whole. And we also source, depending on
the meeting, in some cases we source
questions ahead of time from all the
attendees of the meeting, and they
actually get to rank those questions in
terms of importance. And there are two
things that we do. So, questions is one,
and then the other one is takeaways.
Based on the material that we sent out,
what were your key takeaways from what
you read? And similarly, every attendee
of the meeting would rank those
takeaways. So, the first part of the
meeting, we actually walk through the
fully ranked takeaways. What were the
biggest takeaways that people had from
the material that we sent out.
And then we go through a list of
questions where effectively it could be
around how we can make things better or
getting more information about how to
improve said area. So, this is how we
run typically our operating reviews. And
it's a it ends up becoming a very
good effective use of time because
everybody's engaged in contributing the
agenda of the meeting. What are the key
topics? What are the biggest levers that
we can be driving to make said area that
is covered in the meeting be a better a
better area over time.
For other meetings where we where we
effectively don't have the the time to
send the information ahead of time or
it's a brainstorming meeting as an
example. It's uh typically whoever again
is responsible for a given area, they
start by reviewing predominantly data
information. In some cases it's an Excel
spreadsheet. In some cases about the the
thing that we're trying to solve for.
And then everybody contributes to it.
And there are a few things that usually
I do in meetings. One, there's a rule of
not using devices and being focused on
the person speaking. Uh number two, only
one person speaks at a time. So, there
is something very powerful of giving
somebody your full attention and
listening to what they are saying
because that leads to a much more
constructive conversation. And the third
area is to be it's it's okay to
disagree.
And actually disagreement is encouraged.
But you have to do it respectfully. You
have to do it in a way focusing on the
problem, on the information, not on the
person, not on the subjective. And I
find these these kind of create
framework of really constructive
meetings where at the end of them we're
solving real problems of how we can make
the numbers better and how we can
improve service and how we can improve
employee satisfaction. And it it it
leads to a much better outcome there
there as well.
>> You said ranked takeaways. I want to
come back to this for a second. How do
you rank them? What's the process pre It
sounds like there's a lot going on
pre-meeting in order to make the meeting
as effective as possible.
>> So, in that particular case our
operating reviews, typically we schedule
those on a monthly basis and a week
ahead of the meeting, we send all the
material out and then we send a survey
that has in it where every person can
submit what their top takeaways were and
they can submit what their top questions
to ask during the meeting as well.
And then we send another survey once we
get all this information back where
every attendee of the meeting gets to
rank from a scale of 1 to 10 what they
believe is the most important takeaway
and what they believe is the most
important question. Now, I'll tell you
Shane what's what's fascinating because
think about it this way, let's say I run
pricing at our company.
The people attending in operating
reviews are not necessarily only pricing
people. You have sales people, you have
operators, you have technology folks,
finance folks, HR folks. So, then
they're looking at all of your data and
all of your content and they're all
giving you feedback on whether it's a
takeaway that they saw from what you
were all the information you sent out or
what a question that they want to ask.
Then when these takeaways and questions
are ranked, this is where the magic
happens because now automatically every
person in the senior leadership team
understands what are the good things and
the bad things in that particular
subject matter. They also understand,
based on the questions that they saw,
"Well, that's interesting. I saw that a
person asked about this and this and
this. I didn't see that in the
information. I didn't see that in the
data." So, now the group of people who
are in that meeting can contribute in a
much more effective way because they're
getting the the wisdom of the team, the
wisdom of the crowd and how they are
actually doing it.
>> This is going to sound crazy, but could
you use that system to identify talent?
In the sense that this person's very
junior, but they're actually recognizing
patterns that would be expected of like
a senior person.
>> You definitely can use it for
identifying talent, but but I do think
generally to identify talent, you need
much more touch points than just a
takeaway or a question. Or but and the
way we think about talent development is
a lot of touch points. So, for example,
a lot of companies do performance
reviews once a year or maybe twice a
year. I don't believe in that. I think
performance reviews should be done on a
daily and weekly basis. You got to give
a person feedback that what you're doing
here is fantastic and what you're doing
here needs needs improvement. But at the
same time I'm doing it on a constant
basis, you can identify also who's
trending in the right direction, what
their core skills are, where they need
to improve, how they're improving, and
you can identify talent that way. But
also we have leadership team discussions
about talent that goes beyond, you know,
the first few layers of the company,
about who is up-and-coming talent. So,
then members of the leadership team can
give their feedback on this manager or
that director-level person or maybe
individual contributor who have a long
runway and they're impressed by them and
how this what they are seeing in the
performance of that particular person.
And I think this is this is a more
effective way because you get a wider
perspective from a group of people
specifically about talent development as
opposed to the small window by which
you're evaluating content, you're
evaluating the takeaways, and you're
evaluating questions. But we also share
one other thing I that you mentioned
that I do in those meetings is I have
this for me personally I call it round
robins, but where people either give a
question or a takeaway. If let's say it
was a meeting where we then submit those
ahead of time.
I always subscribe to the fact that the
senior folks, including myself, I will
speak last. I will always ask give my
takeaways or my questions at the end of
the meeting to make sure that there's no
biased thinking. I think Jeff Bezos had
a similar perspective where always you
speak at the end as a leader because
what you don't want by giving your
perspective, somebody somebody who's
junior on the team who might have
fantastic insights is going to be biased
to to think as part of the group. So,
usually the more junior people get to
speak first so they can actually we can
hear their perspective there as well.
>> That's fascinating. I I want to
stick on the meeting thing for a second
here. Do you use AI to record the
meetings?
>> Depending on the meetings, so not not
all of them we use AI. But any type of
structured meeting where we are
discussing effectively say an operating
review, we do use AI to both take notes
and summarize the meetings. And in many
cases we send back out the takeaways to
the team so they actually get to see
what was discussed and what were the key
things that we focused on as a as a
team. But I would say for any meeting
where you it's more structured, where
you have more attendees, etc., then I'd
say it's consistent how we use AI. If
it's a small get-together to figure out
something that we get a status update or
a progress update, then we might not use
AI for that.
>> So, it doesn't sort of like mail me,
"Here are your actions from this
specific meeting that you're supposed to
be doing." or
mail other people in the organization
who might not have been at the meeting
and inform them of something that was uh
decided in the meeting that affects
them? Or how does that
How do you think of that evolving, I
guess?
>> I think overall, so if you look you look
at late last year, typically on a one
once a year basis, we get together the
team and then we walk through the
strategic levers that we have as an
organization
and we we give ourselves a score, an
assessment. How did we do in this area,
that area, that area? But then we think
about how should we evolve the strategy?
Should we do something different when it
comes to that particular lever in the
company? So, so for those kind of much
more
elaborate or involved type sessions
where you're spending two, three days
with the team to change your strategy,
in that particular case we use AI and
then we send back out the action items
and then we effectively use that to
inform or change the levers of our
strategy. But then you still have to
summarize them and come up with the key
themes in terms of how we address that.
So, depending for something that
elaborate where you're spending a lot of
brain power over a few days to
potentially change the direction we're
going in as a as a company, we we use AI
extensively for those kind of sessions.
If we're having a weekly staff meeting
where we are actually going through the
key a KPIs, how they performed for the
prior week, how they are performing
month to date, how they are performing
quarter to date, obviously AI becomes a
bit less important because even the
actions that come out of those meetings
typically are a handful where it's very
easily understood that okay, I'm going
to take this and do something about it.
>> How do you end the meetings?
>> Typically, the last part of a meeting
that I personally like to do is actually
have everybody give their takeaways.
And what what I find fascinating is that
everybody then as they walk through it,
you can see how they interpreted
everything that they heard. And I always
find it very fascinating to to see what
every person took away. And I usually do
it in in two ways. One, what are your
broader takeaways, but then what are you
going to do differently as a person
coming out of this. But this this is
again for the for the larger type
meetings. But usually for smaller
meetings, it could be just walking
through the action items we discussed or
it could be at the end of the discussion
we we we we got to where we needed to
get to.
>> I want to come back to talent for a
second. So, we sort of talked about
identifying talent within the
organization. When you're interviewing
somebody, how do you specifically
identify talent?
>> That's a great question because in
business,
one of the most important levers that
you have
is who's part of the team.
Who are the individuals who ultimately
are working together
to deliver a great amount of value.
And as a public company,
your number one goal is to creating
shareholder value.
But going back to how you interview,
if for every person on the team, there
are certain levers based on their skill
set, on their role. But one would be
what is their technical ability. And
technical ability in my mind has a
components of
their actual core skill set or their
core job. Number two could be their
intellect, how smart they are. Number
three could be the passion that they
have for said area that they are
responsible for. But there's an area
around their technical know-how, skill
set, experience.
Number two is are they hard workers? Are
they somebody who when they go to work,
do they take it very seriously? Do they
put in the hours? Do they Do they wake
up every day thinking about how can I do
my job in a more effective way?
And then number three would be are they
a kind person? Are they somebody who's
going to raise the vibe of the team?
Are they a loving person? Are they
somebody who would love their employees
and their teammates and the company and
the customers and the shareholders? Are
they somebody who has again who's going
to raise the vibe of the team or
somebody who's going to take away from
that? And usually
whether it's being collegial, whether
it's being humble and having a thirst
for knowledge, all of these fall in that
category of the personal side and how
they would fit with the rest of the
team. So when I interview people, I test
for all of these pieces. So let's say
you're interviewing somebody who
oversees sales.
I usually go very deep in my in my
interviews. So I don't just ask them,
"Well, how have you grown revenue at
your last company?" I ask them questions
of, "How did you structure your sales
force? How did you manage leads? How did
you manage your pipeline? How do you
convert your pipeline? How do you manage
revenue realization?" So I go deeper,
much deeper. How did you manage account
plans? And if somebody's not doing it,
"What were your targets for face-to-face
meetings for your sellers per day?"
A lot of these when you start double and
triple clicking, you get a much
different perspective about how all in
was a person in that subject matter. And
the deeper you go, the more you actually
get a really good perspective. Not only
asking the headline question, but
double-clicking and triple-clicking and
quadruple-clicking, because now you can
actually get Yep, this person was fully
in command and had that area locked
tight in terms of that understanding of
it.
In terms of testing for for seriousness
or dedication or hard work, that's a bit
harder to do, but I also ask a lot of
questions around how they looked at that
work and how they think about their
personal life versus their work life. I
find the best professionals you don't
have a distinction between the two to a
certain extent. Work is part of life the
same way that life is part of work. So
effectively it's a it's a circle. You do
these things in a very interchangeable
way, whether you're you're spending your
time time with your family or you're
spending time at work.
All of these are very intertwined in how
a person lives that life. So I tend to
see how they perceive work, how they
look at actually work as a part of life.
And then I always apply the the airport
test after spending an hour or a few
hours with the person, if I get stuck
with that person in an airport, am I
going to enjoy that time? Are they Did
they bring the vibe up? Did I felt
uplifted after that interview or did I
felt emotionally down? But that's the
the structure of the interview. And for
some of the rules by the way, I go also
around intellectual questions to be able
to test their their intellect, how how
smart they are.
But then after all of that is done,
I also get, before I actually do my
interviews, about a 50-page document on
a person based on the notes of every
single person who interviewed them.
And I usually
take subjectivity out of it and I look
at every area that somebody has
identified as potentially being an
issue.
And I very objectively assess it.
And a lot of times what people have
identified as potential areas of issues
end up being the reason why somebody
fails at work.
So I I look at these and then in my
interviews I try to double-click on
those areas as well to make sure that
they don't have a that person has a
shortcoming that could detract from
being able to create value or or raise
the vibe of the team.
>> Wait a second. What would be an example
of that?
>> For example, they don't go deep enough
into into their their area of expertise.
An example could be how they manage
their team members. An example could be
that they were effectively being very
critical of the people that they worked
with over a long period of time.
An example can be how they switch jobs
and why they switch jobs. So many of
these could be examples of things that
people identify. Part of it could be
also that they are that they have an
ego. They're not a kind person. They're
not going to treat their teammates or
people who work for them with respect.
All of these would would come up in that
feedback if they are obviously on the on
the negative side. And I think it's very
important to be in tune not to try to
brush these things under the rug. On the
contrary, to actually take them out and
test for them and figure out is this
going to be a deal breaker? Is this
going to be the reason why somebody's
going to fail after you hire them?
>> How do you think about ego?
>> I'm going to give you a personal
experience. So I started coding in the
early '90s. I was a young kid
and I built a passion for it.
And over time I started with basic on a
Commodore 64.
And then over time I had a older brother
who studied computer engineering. So
then in my, you know, call it early to
mid teens, I used to read all of his
books.
So I became so passionate about
programming that I used to spend the
lion's share of my time outside of
school actually coding.
So when I got to college and I went to
for my undergraduate degree in in
Lebanon, in the country of Lebanon, at
the
at the American University of Beirut,
where I thought I was the best
programmer that has ever existed because
I was doing it. I was training on it. I
was and I used to love writing beautiful
code, efficient code, and I used to
think I'm really good at it.
So naturally, in my mind what ego is,
you think that you're so good at
something
that you stop learning.
And that happens in business as in life,
it creates a ceiling that then doesn't
allow you to create more value to get to
better outcomes. So, I remember at the
time, if you know, a few years later, I
came I came to MIT in Boston to do my
graduate studies in in engineering.
And I met programmers that were 50 times
better, that were just had beautiful
minds, how they thought about things,
how they problem-solved.
And that taught me that
I'm I'm actually I'm I'm I'm a good
programmer, but I'm no way close to
being a great programmer.
And that taught me humility. It actually
enabled me that then suddenly it opens
up many many doors because suddenly
you're saying, well, I might be good at
this. However,
wow, like look at these other people how
they're approaching that problem in a in
a very different way.
And that humility enables you to then
learn more and be able to break through
ceilings and always get better and not
be able to be stuck in a local maximum
and whatever area of expertise it is.
So, when I think about ego, I think it's
a shortcoming in somebody's framework of
thinking where they think effectively
that their knowledge, their skills are
the best they can be and that prevents
them from being able to break through
and wanting to learn more and ask more
questions as opposed to tell more about
a certain area of expertise.
>> Your time in Lebanon was one of the
craziest and your escape was one of the
craziest stories I've heard. Can you
share that with us?
>> I grew up in Lebanon in the in the '80s.
During that time the country was at war.
And it's remarkable to look back at
those times because I remember many many
many nights where at night we wouldn't
sleep at home. We'd actually be sleeping
in a shelter in a bomb shelter.
And it was a period of time for the
country that was a very very dark period
of time.
Now, my brothers and I were very lucky
because we had parents who were
unbelievable. They they they provided us
a
beautiful childhood that was surrounded
with love and although the world around
us was crazy, we actually could we were
not impacted to a certain extent, but
you're still obviously dealing with the
with the trauma of war around you.
So, it teaches you a lot about about how
you know, when when you're under
pressure, it's one thing to be in a bomb
shelter and your your neighborhood is
getting bombed versus any other type of
pressure you're seeing in business or in
life. But, we were lucky that our
parents created again a cocoon to a
certain extent of safety and gave us
what every child want to have in their
childhood, which is love, which is a lot
of support and a little very very loving
environment. But, also we we had to flee
the country because because of the war.
We lived in multiple countries. We lived
in Egypt for a while. We lived here in
Canada for a while. So, it's good to be
back in Ottawa. I haven't been back in
almost 35 years to Ottawa, but I spent a
portion of my childhood here as well.
But, all of these experiences, at least
what they gave me is a different
perspective when you when you interact
with different cultures and different
people, it really teaches you how to
look at things from different
perspectives. Everybody's going to have
a different lens how to look at a
certain solution, a certain problem, at
a certain uh you know, whatever it is it
is that you're dealing with. And I find
a lot of enrichment in that. I seek
other points of view and part of it was
because I grew up in this environment
and I got to see multiple cultures along
the way as we lived in different
countries uh during during the wartime
in Lebanon as well.
>> How do you think that shaped your
approach to taking risks?
>> You know, keep in mind I was very young
at the time. So, when you're very young,
your still your brain is developing and
forming, but it's really when you get to
your teens is when you start thinking
differently about different levers and
and risk.
I think overall, I would probably put
myself in the more risk-averse category,
but I think that's more of my
engineering type education, where as an
engineer you're always assessing risk or
you're you're trying to quantify
everything that you are dealing with.
So, when you look at risk, you're
looking at all the information, all the
data behind that risk and you're
assigning a probability of what's the
probability of that risk materializing.
Now, if you're only looking at the
downside, it's very easy to say I'm not
going to you know, I'm not going to go
there because that's too risky. However,
if you look at the upside and you
probability adjust the upside of
whatever area you're looking at and the
risk that is involved with it,
it changes your perspective of how of
how to deal with risk. But, I I'd say I
have a very analytical view of risk, but
I lean towards being more risk-averse
than risk-taking. And I do think part of
the upbringing, but more importantly my
engineering education is what kind of
governs some of that approach.
>> Uh the notion of risk-taking,
how did you navigate the Yellow
bankruptcy? Somebody reached out to me,
a mutual friend of ours, and told me it
was pure genius. Can you tell us that
story?
>> Yes, so one of our large competitors
went bankrupt in 2023. Very sad,
obviously, for the company and for for
the folks for the folks involved. But,
at the same time, as a
less-than-truckload network, one of the
most important forms of capacity to grow
and service the customer is the terminal
network that you have. So, how large are
your buildings? And some of these
buildings are in order are a mile long
dock effectively. So, very large
facilities.
And having enough capacity in key market
is incredibly important. And it's very
hard to be able to permit and build a
large trucking terminal.
So, effectively, when when Yellow went
bankrupt, all of the real estate came up
for sale and we had to figure out, well,
how much we want to buy and in what
markets we want to buy.
So, in that particular case, and I was a
new CEO going in there,
the question is one, how much do you
buy? And what markets do you buy them
in? How do you justify the return you're
going to get on the capital that you are
deploying? One of the things I learned
from Brad very early on as a CEO, one of
your most important part of the job
is to make sure that you are allocating
capital in a way that can create the
most amount of shareholder value over
time.
Now, when Yellow went bankrupt, we
started looking at, well, okay, if we
look, what is the data telling us?
Based on different markets,
where are we falling short on capacity?
Which market is growing
that we we have X amount of doors, X
amount of physical space,
and if we look at the growth trajectory
of that market, we're going to run out
of capacity.
And we analyzed that in all the markets
that we operate in,
and we we knew that the larger the
terminals we buy, the better it is
because you can get higher efficiency in
those markets. If you have a much larger
terminal, much more space, than much
less space.
So, we effectively use data to identify
all of these markets, and then we mapped
their network onto our network, and we
found 28 properties that would have the
largest impact. And for each one of them
then, we created a business plan. We
created a business plan that says, how
much efficiency are we going to get in
that market?
If we are capacity constrained today,
and we have a 5% market share in that
market, and our
company's market share in the industry
is about 10%, how can we go grow from 5%
beyond that? And what would be the
financial flow through, the income
effectively associated with growing in
that particular market? And we were able
to effectively identify 28 properties
that were the ones that we wanted to
buy.
And
we ended up spending nearly a billion
dollars on that real estate, and it was
a remarkable acquisition, because
effectively it's now giving us the
runway. So, one it made us much more
efficient day one in those markets. We
were able to improve operating margins
dramatically. That's not the only reason
why, but that was part of the reason.
But more importantly, that capacity now
is enabling us to capitalize on what
could be an industrial recovery over the
years to come here in North America. And
these terminals will pay a big, big
roles in in any enabling us to deliver
on that.
>> That was a big decision as a new CEO.
That's a lot of money involved. How did
you make that decision?
>> Well, overall, you you start off by
looking at what are the units of how do
the financials add up effectively. So,
so what's the what's the overall return
you're going to get on that deployed
capital? And what I learned from Red is
it doesn't matter what the size of the
check is. That's only thing that
matters, which is the return you're
going to get on the size of the check.
But a lot of it is, you know, obviously,
our board was very much involved in the
process giving feedback and perspective
based on the numbers that we were
showing. Initially, we started off with
a much smaller purchase price and a much
smaller set of terminals then we can
agree with that over time.
Red's feedback in the process, he was
our chairman at the time, was was
fantastic. The team working together and
brainstorming and figuring out what
again what would give us the highest
amount of return associated with that.
So, a lot of it is again looking at the
data, looking at the returns very
importantly, but then having a lot of
feedback loops on are we doing the right
thing here? Is that deployment of
capital something that's going to create
a lot of alpha for shareholders? And the
answer was yes. So, we effectively you
feel much more comfortable making that
decision because you you see what the
road map is going to look like to be
able to deliver those returns.
>> But it's one thing to see those returns
in a spreadsheet, and it's another thing
to actually enable those returns. Talk
to me about that.
>> Well, by the way, in business, that's
always the case. I mean, when you think
about creating a ton of shareholder
value, there is always I mean
with a large company, with a
multinational company, we have 40,000
people. Every decision you make has big
ripple effects into what kind of
outcomes you can drive. But this is also
part of it would be the financial
processes that we have and being able to
track any initiative that we are
driving. So so high level, I mentioned
earlier on that in business you have big
strategic levers, then you have a
certain set of KPI of metrics that
ultimately grow your earnings that
ultimately enable you to create
shareholder value. And then you have
action plans of how you can drive those
levers to to get to the right place. But
this is where also proper financial
planning and analysis comes into play.
For each one of the projects that you
have including buying a billion dollars
of real estate, you have a project plan.
You have a project plan that says over
what period of time are we going to
launch these terminals, we're going to
renovate them and make them look like an
XPO terminal effectively. Over what
period of time you're going to launch
them.
Once we launch each one of them, we have
a certain assumption.
This is how much we expect to improve
productivity. This is how much we expect
to improve efficiency. This is how much
market share we expect to gain.
And our FP&A all of these things and now
you can see the trajectory of how you
are
delivering on what you expected to
deliver. And when you see something
deviating, then the team is getting
together to say, "Well, okay, did we
have the wrong action plan? Or what
should we be doing differently to then
get back get back this initiative or
this project back on track to make sure
it's delivering to the right outcomes we
expect."
>> What's your FP&A team and what do they
do?
>> So our FP&A team is financial planning
and analysis.
Effectively, it's the team that looks at
all of the financial metrics, financial
KPIs of how is your top line trending,
effectively what is your top line doing,
what is your cost structure doing, and
ultimately what are the profits that you
are generating. But then when you double
click, they look at first for any
period, they are looking what we list
what we call risk and opportunities. So
effectively, what are the opportunities
based on initiatives that we are driving
that can deliver a better financial
outcome.
And what are the risks that we see in
the environment that can take away from
the financial outcome. And then for each
one of those levers, we assign a
probability. So now you can probability
adjust what is the projected financial
performance of the company for the week,
for the month, for the quarter, for the
year as we think it through. But then,
if you go down through the ranks in the
FP&A team, for every operators
that owns a P&L, a profit and loss
statement, they actually have an FP&A
resource that is selling them what are
the levers. So where is where are your
metrics trending? And what are the
levers that you can pull to drive the
outcomes? And are these levers
performing at the level as a business
leader that you expect to deliver on the
on the outcome? And that's incredibly
important in business because
ultimately,
the scorecard of a operating company is
how much are you growing your top line,
how much are you growing your profits,
how much are you growing your operating
margin. And the FP&A team is what
instruments all of that and give you
forecast. And they also, I mentioned
earlier on when we look at KPIs, we look
both at first derivative and second
derivative of the KPI. Again, the first
derivative tells you your revenue's up
5% on a year-on-year basis.
Many companies stop there.
What our FP&A team does, then they say,
"Well, okay, the second derivative shows
that although you're up 5%, that's a
decelerating trend. So next month, that
could be 3%. The following one could be
1%." And that's the problem that we got
to solve for as a team and figure out
how we can course correct that.
>> I love that.
I want to come back to talent for a
second. One of the stories that you had
told me when we spoke last was about
ABC. Can you tell us
that and how it's useful for you?
>> Well, so generally, when you when you
assess talent, you want to be able to
assess who are the top performers on
your team that you either not only want
to make sure you retain them, but you
also want to invest in them. You want to
grow them. You want to see them do
amazing things over time because they
have a lot of untapped potential.
You also want to look at who's not
performing on the team. Who's somebody
on the team who for whatever reason,
whatever circumstances happened, that
they are not adding value. They are not
being able to contribute to the best
outcome for the company overall.
But if you think about ranking folks as
A, B, or C, typically an A player is
somebody that they are again a top
performer. They are somebody that you're
proud of them. You're proud of their
work. You think the world of them. And I
learned this actually test from from
Brad as well. If an A player walks into
your office and say, "Mario,
you know what? I Don't try to talk me
out of it.
Maybe my wife is moving to a different
state and I, you know, I took a job with
another company and you know, don't
don't try to talk me out of it. This is
done."
If the outcome out of that is feeling
that you have a pit in your stomach,
that you go back home, you're talking to
your wife and say, "I don't know what
I'm going to do. I just heard the most
horrible news today."
And if that's the feeling of angst, it's
the feeling of I'm sure how we're going
to replace that person,
that's an A player.
If somebody walks into your office and
they say, "Hey Mario, don't try to talk
me out of it. I'm actually I found
another role in another company and I'm
going to move on to a different industry
maybe." And your feeling is,
"Whoa.
That's good news. Actually, we're going
to be able to upgrade talent. We're
going to be able to This is going to be
great. We'll figure out the transition
plan. That's a C player." So
effectively, it's how you think about
the people that are working on your team
and who are working for them, who are
again the top performing people that you
want to retain, that's an A player, and
who are the people that if they move on,
it's not a big deal actually. You can
potentially get to a better to a better
outcome as well. And we take that very,
very, very seriously. I personally think
the biggest lever
in creating a lot of alpha in business
is who you have on the team and how they
work with each other.
If that is rock solid, if people who
work for you are all A players,
it's a beautiful thing because they push
each other in a beautiful way and
ultimately they deliver alpha.
Ultimately they deliver better results.
Ultimately they deliver a better
environment for employees where
employees are much happier to come to
work because part of them being an A
player is how they manage their teams.
So that's why we think we think of that
talent evaluation process being very
important in making sure we have the
most amount of A players on the team,
especially the higher up you go in the
company, is very, very important.
>> So your job as a leader then is to take
those talented people and create a
high-performance environment. How do you
think about that? How do you do that?
>> Well, high-level,
I think you have to look at every person
in a very
customized way based on what makes them
great.
I always start for every person who work
who works for me,
I look for the things that makes them a
beautiful professional. What makes their
brain beautiful? What makes them
actually a great
team member.
And I believe in them. I believe in
their ability to do amazing things. And
I think if you look at the human psyche,
people want to be appreciated.
And when you show someone that you that
you believe in them, that you truly
believe in their ability to be great,
they have a much, much higher odd to
actually be great than if you're only
focusing on where they are falling
short.
Now, once you have that, it doesn't mean
that where they're falling short should
be, you know, should not be discussed.
However, in my from my perspective, when
I give constructive feedback to my team,
I never make it subjective. I always
ground it on data. I'll tell them,
"Well, okay, look at this situation. We
could have gone into this outcome based
on what the data is telling us, but we
got over here. We got to figure out how
to do it in a better way.
Suddenly, that person is thinking,
"Yeah, I fell short in this area."
But they're not thinking they're not
getting becoming defensive because I'm
not telling them, "Hey, I think you
dropped the ball on this. I think you're
not working hard enough. I think you're"
because then suddenly it's a very
subjective set of feedback that causes
people to retract from it as opposed to
it being, you know, "Let me tell you
objectively where things didn't work
well." But then after you have that, so
after you believe in that, it's also
about creating an environment where it's
safe for them to try things and it's
safe for them to sometimes fail at them
because that's part of life. For every
five great things you're going to do,
you're going to fail at one or two of
them. But also creating a safe
environment where they can spread their
wings, where they can figure out a way
to get from, again, best outcome from
point A to point B.
>> How did you learn to give feedback like
this?
That seems atypical of somebody with a
computer engineering background.
>> That's a great question, Shane, because
if I go back earlier in my career,
that was a big shortcoming of mine.
But the way I led teams was based on,
let's say I'm looking at a certain
goal, certain solution we wanted to
build.
I would analyze it and I would come up
with a road, like going back to the
engineering design process. I would say,
"Well, okay, this is a a goal we want to
achieve or a problem we want to solve."
Then I would think through the
requirements, I would think through the
highlights of the solution, and then I
would go to my team member and say,
"Well, you know, listen, this is where
we are here. This is where we want to
get to. I personally believe that's the
best way to go from here to here."
Naturally, when when you do that, you
automatically atrophy that person's
brain from them being able to find the
the best the best outcome.
So, over time what I realized is that
then if I didn't have the time or I
wasn't a subject matter expert in a
certain area,
we just don't get to the optimal
solution in a given in a given area. We
just short cut it that quite a bit.
So, then I started learning more and
more with time as opposed to
give somebody what I think the solution
is.
What I need to do is actually
teach them a process where they are they
are analyzing the data and they are
coming back to me with insights of what
that data the data is telling them.
Similarly, they are designing a solution
and in many many cases I look at the
solution and say, "Wow, that's something
I didn't even come close to thinking
about." So, going back to your question
on giving constructive feedback,
what I notice is whenever you give
somebody only constructive feedback
and you're only telling them where they
are falling short,
you are missing out on them potentially
being great.
And that feedback is now rooted in
molding them
into your own perspective into your own
solution to go from point A to point B
as opposed to them potentially being
much better than you.
And and that's why when I when I give
feedback, I usually always start by the
things that make them great. What are
the things that they are doing that they
should keep on doing, that they should
amplify, that they should find new ways
of actually using those skills, those
attributes to create even better things.
And then when it comes to the
constructive pieces,
I remove the subjective. I tell them,
"Well, okay, objectively if I look at
this, this is what the data said, this
is what the situation is, this is kind
of how we look at it." And now they are
seeing different perspective of how they
can get better without feeling that they
are falling short or getting defensive
or building up a wall and then not
potentially getting to a better place.
>> Did somebody give you feedback like this
and and that's how you learned this or
>> I think through my career it was
multiple I mean, obviously you work for
different people, you learn from
different people and different I had
different mentors and different leaders
where some gave very critical feedback
on on the onset and some were much more
constructive and believing in you, but I
think it was more iterative over time in
terms of learning that and with Red
being my mentor for for for more than a
decade, his approach to this is very
similar where he's always looking at how
do you actually give constructive not
constructive how you give somebody what
they're doing well and how they can
actually amplify that as well, which was
a very very similar method as well.
>> How do you think about capital
allocation?
>> So, high-level capital I mentioned
earlier on as a CEO, you have only a few
levers of how you can create a lot of
value over time.
I personally believe number one is who
you surround yourself with, who's on the
team, how does the team work with you
together. Number two is capital
allocation where you have a finite
amount of resources as a company,
doesn't matter how big you are as a
company.
Where do you deploy that capital so that
you are getting the highest return back
on the capital that you are deploying?
And in many many cases, especially as a
public company, that capital is actually
shareholders who publicly have given you
money to invest for them so they can get
they can actually make more money at the
end of that. And the third area is where
you allocate time, not only your time,
but the team's time to be able to create
the most the most amount of alpha. So,
when I think about capital allocation,
it's what's going to generate the most
amount of returns. And the the different
forms of capital allocation, one is how
much capital you deploy into the
company.
And it's a very simple equation for
every project that we have where we are
deploying capital, we look at what is
the return associated with that capital
deployed. For a million bucks you
deployed in a project, are you going to
get a million a year, you're going to
get two million a year, you're going to
get three million a year, you're going
to get 100,000 a year? So, that's a very
important measure of for every
initiative where we are deploying
capital within the company, is it going
to give you a higher return?
When you think M&A and how you deploy
capital in M&A, the key is there are
multiple levers for that. One is how
does a company fit to the overall
strategic vision of the company? How how
can you Does it give you a new set of
customers? Does it give you a new
product, a new capability? Does it help
you build scale, as an example. But in
M&A, when you acquire that company, and
you apply your systems and know-how and
process, and you get where 1 + 1 equals
to more than two, what would be the
return you're going to get on that
particular M&A investment that you have
done? Is it accretive? Is it going to
create shareholder or detract from
shareholder value? Would be would be the
second lever of how you deploy capital.
Then you get into the uses of cash in a
company, where does it make sense to
What kind of leverage you want to keep?
Does it Does it make sense to pay down
debt? Or does it make back make sense to
buy back your shares if you believe
where you are today, your profitability
at this as at this level, and it's going
to get to that particular level in a few
years. Well, ultimately, if you buy back
your shares today, you're buying them
for cheap. And then effectively, it's
going to create more alpha and more
return for shareholders. So, ultimately,
capital allocation, I personally think
is a very struct- structure should be
very objective on ultimately, what's
going to create the highest return for
your shareholders. And whatever that
answer is is where you're going to
deploy your capital.
>> How do you fend off complacency?
>> I think complacency, overall, comes from
feeling comfortable and feeling content.
The best way
to fight complacency is by setting ultra
ultra big goals. By the way, ultra big
goals in business and life and
relationships, because ultimately, let's
say you're setting a goal for your
company to grow X amount.
And you achieve that X amount. You're
giving yourself a good pat on the back
that you achieved that particular set of
growth.
Then you're going to become complacent.
You're going to feel that it's it's okay
to actually have But I believe that life
is short. You got to set big big goals.
If you set big goals, that alone is a
cure for complacency because you're
always striving to achieve something
much bigger.
And as a team, when you start achieving
those goals,
winning breeds winning to a certain
extent. And then what ends up happening
is that the team then gets more excited
and more confident and more motivated to
then set even bigger goals. So So I
think part of fighting complacency is by
thinking big and not thinking small and
striving to achieve great things in
life. Life short. Life it just go goes
in in in a snap of a finger. You don't
want to live a
easy kind of a complacent life. You
don't want to set small goals and not
You want to achieve big things in life.
And big things doesn't necessarily have
to be in business. It can be that if
you're a musician, you want to be the
best musician possible. You want to play
this piece that you never thought you're
even capable of. If you're a business
person, you want to create shareholder
value. If you're a family person, you
want to have a great family, a loving
family where you see your kids do
amazing things, that your your friends
do amazing things. And I think what
fights complacency is always striving to
do something bigger in life. And that
that enables you to always be pushing
for the next step, for the next level,
and be able to drive for that.
>> What's your personal ambition for the
next 20 or 30 years?
>> I think I break it down between between
business and between the personal life.
In terms I'll start with the personal
life, I think
having a family and friends I I I I like
to have an enriching
life when it comes to the the people you
surround yourself with. And spending a
lot of time with my family, with my
kids, seeing my kids grow into beautiful
adults and beautiful human beings is a
is a big ambition for me. And I see them
just be good people is is is is big.
From a work perspective, I think it's
doing meaningful work. It's actually
building companies, seeing people
succeed. It's seeing effectively folks
do things they they didn't think were
possible, be able to provide for their
families and have constructive and happy
and happy lives as well. And that could
be in in business, could be different
type of companies, could be but
something that truly has an impact,
something something that meaningfully
impact people's lives for the better.
>> I want to come back to the family part
there for a second. So you have a wife,
you have three kids who are all young.
How do you run a business and have time
to be a part of the family?
>> So I mentioned earlier on that one of
the the most important um
things that as a C as a CEO you have is
where you spend time where you spend
your personal time and then where you
have your organization spend their time.
And I think I once get got a very good
piece of advice that
when you're trying to do a lot of
things, naturally you have less time.
But you also have to simplify
the goals and the targets and the things
that you are driving to what is the most
important. So when it comes to family,
you know, obviously when you have when
you're doing a lot of things at work,
you have a limited amount of time. But I
try to make it the most amount of
meaningful time that I can. So when I'm
with my kids for example, I don't use my
phone, I put it away.
I do meaningful activities with them. As
a engineer,
last summer we actually built a robotic
arm that we programmed and we actually
tried to make it solve a Rubik's Cube.
It didn't didn't work as expected, but
we kind of give give it a a fighting
shot there. Or whether it's taking my
kids fishing and spending time with them
actually doing activities that are
outdoors. So I think when you are
limited on time, what you can focus on
is making the quality of that time be
the highest possible. And also
figuring out where you want to spend
your time. So for example, I don't watch
TV, I don't play golf, I don't you know,
have for me is I'm either working and
with with my with my team in the company
that I love and being able to drive
their outcomes or spending time with my
family with my kids and do amazing
things with them. They make you young by
the way along the way.
>> I remember the first time we met you
said I have no hobbies, zero.
>> That's true. Actually, my hobbies are my
work and my kids.
>> I love that. Go deeper on the time
allocation a little bit. Spend a few
beats on that and how you think about
time allocation not only
as a CEO, but as a parent.
Actually, let's do the CEO part. So, go
deeper on time allocation and how you
think of that from the work perspective.
>> I think from a work perspective
that are levers that you are spending.
So, there are subjects that you are
spending time on and there are ways that
you are spending your time and I'll come
back to that in a second.
But, in terms of
to have a successful execution over a
long period of time, you need to have a
strategy. You need to have levers that
you are focused on as an organization to
be able to drive better outcomes. As an
example for us, these are things like
service, investing in capacity,
gaining profitable market share, growing
pricing, and then improving cost
efficiency predominantly in three
categories and how we operate our
network.
When you have clarity of what's
important to drive the right business
outcomes, then it's much easier for you
to organize where you spend your time.
But, naturally, I gravitate to where I
spend my time based on where the action
plan is not leading to the intended
results.
So, let's say a certain area in our plan
is working swimmingly well.
My contributions
won't add a lot of value because I
already have somebody or a team of
people who are all in, who have a strong
action plan, who are executing on it,
and then my job is to make sure that I'm
giving them what they need. I'm spending
enough time with them to keep the
guardrails and make sure that we're
holding them accountable to deliver to
set outcomes.
However, if there is an area that is not
performing well, that is falling short,
that is effectively not delivering to
what we as a team believe the the best
outcome can be, I gravitate towards
spending my time there. And then I
usually where I spend my time is first I
help the team analyze the data behind
said area,
give them my perspective, make available
people on the team who are incredibly
bright who can do the same to give them
different perspective of then changing
the action plan from what it was to what
it ought to be to deliver the best
amount of value. So in terms of the
subjects where I spend my time, this is
typically how how I do it. In terms of
where I spend my time, I think you
always look at your team, you have
stakeholders within the company. You
have your employees, you have your
customers, you have your shareholders,
and you have to figure out where you
organize spending your time to be able
to again deliver to the best to the best
outcome. On employees side, I like to
spend a lot of time in the field. Even
my team tells me if I haven't been out
to a terminal for a few weeks, I say,
"Mario, you got to get out there because
like you know, you're you're getting in
our hair, kind of you know, you're
you're you're becoming micromanage
here." But I think it gives you
perspective because when you're spending
time with the people who are who are
moving the freight,
it's suddenly you can then elevate, you
can zoom out and say, "Well, okay, what
we're working on over here makes a lot
of sense because now I can see how it's
going to have an impact on ultimately
the people who are actually moving the
goods and how it's going to impact their
lives for the better." So I like to
spend a lot of time in the field. I
spend a lot of time with my team on
initiatives, on programs, on action
plans, and how they again going to get
to a certain output. I do find that a
lot of leaders spend time on what's the
output. But ultimately, you got to spend
time on the inputs. You got to spend
time on the action plan that changes the
output. These are the things that you
can control to change a certain outcome.
So I find myself spending a lot of time
in in data, in action plans that
influence a certain outcome.
I do love spending a lot of time with
customers. Every quarter I meet with
dozens and dozens of customers where I
get to see, to hear from them what their
problems are or whether it's a sales
meeting, whether it's a quarterly
business review. I think you also get a
different perspective ultimately of the
people who make a choice between using
your company or another company to buy
the service. And having that voice of
the customer, I think permeates through
the entire organization as well. But
these are some of the different areas
where I think about the lion's share of
the time gets spent. And of course you
have earnings, you have spending time
with shareholders, but all of these are
a lower magnitude of time than the other
things I just mentioned.
>> You're an extreme learner and a
voracious consumer of information. I
remember the first time we met you said
you had printed out 25 transcripts from
podcast episodes and sort of went
through them. Where does that come from
and how do you separate signal from
noise when you're consuming information?
>> Both of these are are great questions.
First, in terms of how you get
information, I think it's a conscious
choice. Every morning you have a choice
to make. That choice can be that today
I'm going to go do my job the way I
always do it or you can make a choice
that I want to learn new things.
I think
in terms of within the company, I learn
a lot through asking questions. So
usually if you're in a meeting with me
in our company, I'd be asking 50
questions. And however, before I even
ask the questions, I actually would have
reviewed at least Excel spreadsheets of
data if I have to to be able to look at
the information and what the data is
saying. So now your questions are
informed by data behind it. But going
back to how
I consume information. One, we we do a
lot of research as a company. So we have
a small team of analysts that every
weekend actually pulls together research
reports from the industry,
from all of our competitors,
from what we're hearing about ourselves
in the media, from customers, kind of
research on their companies and what
they are hearing. And every weekend
effectively I get from the team both for
our for ourselves, for our competitors,
for our industry, for side businesses,
and for customers, hundreds of pages of
content that are all highlighted where
are some of the key points, what they
are, with a summary created for each one
of them. And usually on the weekend,
either Saturday or Sunday, I actually
read those couple hundred pages of of
content. Now, as I read them,
effectively, I highlight the pieces that
I thought were were important. In some
cases, I could share them with the team
and say, "Hey, when I was what do you
think of this outcome or what do you
think of this whatever new technology or
something that we read in there?" So, I
think that's more of a process-based
approach to be able to to read more and
and and learn more. From people I meet,
I usually again ask a lot of questions
if they are in side industries, whether
it's a CEO you meet at a conference or
an investor, you effectively get to pick
their brain on what they are seeing, how
they are doing things, how they are
doing things differently, and you you
effectively get that helps inform kind
of what you're doing. Uh so so I think
step number one is having a very
conscious view of being able to go get
information and consume information to
get a more holistic view, a more
holistic picture of whatever it is the
topic that you're looking at.
In terms of how you filter
signal from noise,
I don't know if there's a specific
method to do that. I I I think while you
are consuming information, I think you
have to be very honest about the
information you're consuming. And one of
the techniques I use is how many times
do I see something appearing in a
certain set of information that I'm
consuming. Uh so for example, let's say
not not to pick AI, but let's say in AI,
you're seeing that the new reasoning
models are getting better. But then
you're hearing it from customers who are
using them in certain ways, you're
hearing it from research on tech
companies that you're looking in a
certain way. Now, you know that this
could be shaping up to be a a
over time.
You look at industrial demand in the
country and you're reading through
research reports from 20 different
analysts who have spoken to hundreds of
people to get to these analyst reports
and you start seeing the same theme or
trend that is going that going on in the
information, then you actually start
thinking about it a bit a bit
differently in terms of
that that becomes a signal as opposed to
you heard it once where it might not be
as as big of a of a impactful area. And
the other thing I do is also I I do
every morning I spend about 15 minutes
with 30 minutes. As I I usually get
myself in the car in a calm place
and I think about every decision or
every aspect of things I'm going to do
for the day and I inform it based on
what I read over the weeks over the
weeks prior whether it's within the
company or outside of the company and I
just let my mind race through all the
plausible outcomes. So it's almost like
a decision tree. Like if if if you play
chess, you can look at about when you
when you play chess, you're always
thinking about if I move this piece,
what are the next three pieces or next
move next move next move and then how
deep you go effectively the more you
train your brain to do it. You can
actually do it in a more effective way.
So then I use that information where now
you're synthesizing all of it and you're
looking at what you're doing and you're
trying to figure out what is it from a
three perspective decision spanning
three perspective, what each path what
does it lead to and how you now using
that information to somehow apply it to
a problem you're trying to solve or a or
something that you're seeing in your
day-to-day life.
>> Where did you learn that?
>> Not a specific place. I think it was
more over over the years it's something
I started doing and I found it helped me
solve problems early on and I think it's
uh just became something I do every
every single morning.
>> So I want to make sure I get this right.
So you sort of like it's almost like a
meditation. You take 15 minutes and you
sort of think through the big
decisions that day or the big things or
the things that you want to focus on.
Walk me through that.
>> So it's all of the above. So usually I
start by thinking through as a company,
what are the things that we are dealing
with? What are the things I'm worried
about? What are the things that are
effectively could somehow impact our
business?
Number two, I think about all the
material I read the prior day or the
prior week, and what are some of the key
takeaways that I'm seeing in the trend
of data. But then there's something
fascinating, Shane. A lot of time when
people think they use speech to think.
So, you effectively you are limiting
yourself at the speed at which you speak
to be able to find or solve a problem.
However, you can train your mind to go
much faster than that. And the way you
do it is effectively you you start with
an idea,
and then you just you almost let it roll
forward with well, okay, let's say we
want to grow a top line. We want to grow
sales. We want to gain market share. We
want to close a certain account. We are
having a cost efficiency issue in that
particular part of the business.
And then you start thinking through,
what are the different levers you can
move? You can say, well, okay, if volume
grows based on what I'm seeing in that
research where you are seeing the
industrial demand pick up in the
country, and I know we have these three
accounts we're actually onboarding, that
means that we if we push further the
cost efficiency,
we might have an issue with that volume
is going to grow faster. But you do
these type of decisions,
I just let my brain effectively think
through all of them, and then it kind of
builds a certain At the end of the
process, what I usually find is that I
have three or four things that there's
clarity that these are the three or four
things that we got to focus that I have
to focus on to be able to get to a
better outcome as as an example. I do
the same thing in my personal
relationship with my kids, with their
schooling, with their activities, where
you let you just you you let But it's
key to get to go into a very calm state
when when you do it. So, this way you're
removing the environmental noise around
you as you are doing it as well. But I
find it as a very effective technique as
a mental model to be able to solve
problems and find different alternatives
to solve a problem.
>> I love that. It's like beyond the
internal monologue.
>> Yep.
>> How do you personally use AI?
>> At the personal level, I use AI
predominantly for research
or fact check
or whenever I have an idea or thought
process, I usually my bias is always go
to one of the AI platform. I have all of
them on my phone where effectively
I would
use it as a way to either go deeper in a
certain topic or get more information
about the certain topic.
I also use it whenever I have large
documents that I would have read. It's a
good way to get a summary and AI's
perspective on what it found in them and
what are the key takeaways. It's
actually finding out of that data, out
of that information.
>> But you're not using it to sort of like
here's a 500-page document, summarize
this for me in the way that you
mentioned this specifically was I've
read the 500 pages, give me the summary
almost like a space repetition.
>> Correct. And I usually do it with more
than one platform because each one of
them will have slightly key different
takeaways than what the takeaways that I
had. And I think the variability between
them can make you spot things that you
didn't see or that you, you know, you
were skimmed over or you thought were
not important, but suddenly these two AI
platforms tell you, well, this is a
point you actually is is very important.
And the end you get you can get more
information and more more actionable
stuff that you can do that that you can
do with it as well.
>> How do you think about robotics in the
next sort of like 10 years specifically
as it affects trucking, warehousing,
storage, anything?
>> It's tough to tell what what do what the
world would look like from a physical
robots perspective
because the speed at which AI is
developing
is very very very fast. So, it's tough
to tell. If I look today at the
how effective robots are
there's still a lot of room for things
to improve. So, today when you think
about robotics, they robots have
predominantly evolved or effective
robots that can be used in business to
have a very specific application in how
they work. So, for example, part of our
company we used to be one of the largest
warehousing operators in the world. And
you think about robots in that space,
you could have a autonomous robot that
looks effectively like a square that is
just kind of going on on on the floor of
a warehouse.
And then it has a panel that can hold
shelves of goods and it brings the right
shelf of goods to a human picker sitting
stationary now as opposed to having a
human having to walk through a picking
area to pick the products to ship to a
customer when when you buy something
online as an example. So, a lot of the
robotic applications have been very
specific in scope
to solve a specific problem
is what has been effective so far.
If you think, however, about humanoid
robots, I think humanoid robots are
effectively trained to do what humans
do, how we move our hands, how we
perceive the world through vision, how
we perceive the world through hearing,
and and that's a much tougher task to
solve for because you're trying to fit
an AI model that typically works great
in a digital setting, deals with
content, and now you're try trying to
making it perceive the world the same
way a human does. There's another
component of it would be for a humanoid
robot to be effective, we as humans have
emotions, have effectively things that
you know, we we perceive the world with
whether there's empathy, whether there's
compassion, whether it's
anxiety, whether it's effectively we we
have emotions that shape our behavior.
And I think currently where AI is and
where robots are, it's they're still not
there in terms of being able to perceive
what human consciousness is to a to a
certain extent. So, going back to your
question, it it's tough for me to tell
is it going to be 10 years before we
have effective humanoid robots, is it
going to be two, or is it going to be
20, because the rate of change is very
fast, but at the same time, the problem
to solve is very, very hard, as well.
Now, if you more broadly, though, if you
look at AI, it's truly remarkable what
has happened over the last two, three
decades. I I remember
I built my first AI neural network back
in the late '90s.
At the time, it was running on a Pentium
CPU that was from a capacity perspective
was capable of, at the peak, of one,
maybe one gigaflop in terms of compute
power.
You look at today where the latest
Google TPUs and where the Nvidia chips
are all at, we're talking five
petaflops. That effectively is five
million times more powerful from a
compute perspective what existed two to
three decades ago.
So, when you think about the
how large the AI models were at the
time, if you have something that has 10
million parameters, you're pushing the
envelope. Today, you're dealing with
two, three, four, five trillion
parameters in terms of how these large
language models operate. So, I think if
I roll that forward, the trajectory has
been effectively very, very fast or very
steep. And if that continues, we'll see
how that materializes into robotics. But
but I think in the near term, I think
it's more purpose-built robots that are
using AI to try to automate a certain
task and make effectively the outcomes
more efficient accordingly.
>> I want to come back to a couple things
that we talked about earlier before we
wrap this up. One, where does your work
ethic come from?
>> I think it started with my with my
parents. My dad has been a was an
entrepreneur.
And he's also an engineer.
And was also an amazing business person,
as well. Very wise person. If you if you
meet him, you just spend 15 minutes with
him, you say,
"Okay, that person is very very very
wise." And I saw, since we were kids,
the work ethic that he had and being
able to deliver, you know, to
effectively build great things, but also
be able to provide for our family as
well. And that was rooted in me at a
very young age that working hard
has to be part of the equation. Has to
be part of if you want to build big
things in life.
You cannot do it by not being 100% in,
100% dedicated on what it is that you're
doing. Which means when you wake up in
the morning, you're thinking about it.
When you go to bed, you're thinking
about it. Now, you couple that with
being the leader of an organization,
you're responsible for 40,000 people.
I take this responsibility very
seriously. If I work an extra hour and I
can actually somehow improve the lives
of 40,000 people,
I'm going to work this extra hour.
And and I think that's the reason why
when I think about work ethic, it's it's
part of the ingredient of being all in,
to to be obsessed by every KPI, by every
lever, by every team interaction, and to
give all yourself
for the team and the company you're
working for because when you do that,
you deliver better outcomes and the
people who are working for you, they
deliver amazing things and they'll be
proud of themselves. You'll be proud of
them. And I think that's rooted in part
with having very strong work ethic, but
for me, if I go back to my childhood, it
was from seeing my dad build companies
and he had a fantastic work ethic and I
and I learned from that.
>> Are you driven by clean fuel or dirty
fuel?
>> Tell me more about that kind of fuel.
>> Well, dirty fuel would be like Michael
Jordan. You know, he sort of like makes
up slight from competitors. He's angry,
he's got a chip on his shoulder and that
is the fire inside him. The you know,
Tom Brady would be another example of
you know, somebody who at least started
being driven by dirty fuel. He's got a
chip on his shoulder,
199th draft pick, six quarterbacks taken
before him. You know, at Michigan, he
sort of
seventh on the depth chart when he got
there, always fighting for his job. He
always just felt like nothing was given
to him. Circumstances were conspiring
against this His attitude at Michigan
was fascinating. Just a brief aside
here. So, when he was when he went to
Michigan, he's seventh on the depth
chart, and he's you know, he's coming
from being a high school star, going to
a big-time D1 school, and then all of a
sudden he's seventh, he's fighting, and
he's about to like transfer out of
Michigan. And he goes to talk to the
athletic director, and I want to make
sure I don't know if I'm going to get
all the exact details right, but it was
Greg Harden.
And Harden was like, "I don't give a
what you think is fair and what's
not fair. Uh you have a chance to
control certain circumstances. You're
getting one rep in practice." And he was
getting one rep at the time. And he's
like, "You have 100% control over that
one rep. Treat it, you know, like you
would the Super Bowl." And it changed
Brady's approach, but he was always
driven. The fire inside him always came
from people doubting him, not believing
in him, wanting to prove them wrong.
And then, you know, clean fuel, an
example of that would be Brad. Brad's a
perfect example of somebody who's driven
by
I want to create success for everybody
else. I'm driven by this goal. I'm not
motivated by a chip on my shoulder.
>> I think it's definitely clean fuel is is
the way I think about the world. I
personally think that humans
can create amazing things.
And I believe in that. When I work with
team members, when people around me, I
always believe that they are capable
more than what they believe they are
capable of.
And to what I said earlier on, we we
live short lives. And effectively, if
you think about it, you want them to be
meaningful. You want them to be
impactful. You want to be able to see
somebody grow and do amazing things over
time. So, for me, winning is about
being smart. It's about being able to
understand
how you can take a team, a group of
people,
create a very good plan, but then fight
every single day to win, because then
you're you're seeing somebody in a team
realize their full potential.
And for me, I I live on that. And I when
I look back through my career, I always
think about winning, not in the way
that, you know, I want to go just crush
the competition, or that's not the bar.
For me, the bar is are we achieving the
best that we can achieve.
For me, that's what was important,
because then
if you're achieving what you can
achieve, you're not comparing yourself
to your competition. Of course, you have
to study your competition to understand
what are the levers that they are
pushing and what's working for them,
because in some cases, you might not
need to reinvent the wheel. In some
cases, you might look at it and say,
"Oh, great idea. Like, let's actually
Let's actually use that idea to make our
company a better company." But I always
the bar I use is always it's not about
winning at the expense of somebody else.
It's the opposite. It's actually winning
because we are doing things right for
the long term.
>> So, like growing the pie instead of
dividing the pie.
>> 100% is how I think about it overall.
>> I love that. We always end these
interviews with the same question, which
is what is success for you?
>> Success for me is someone, including
myself, realizing their full potential.
Is being able to achieve what they can
achieve with the tools, education,
background that they have been given,
and to be the best version of
themselves.
While doing so, also being happy and
emotionally fulfilled, because
ultimately, you can achieve great
business success at the expense of your
family life, as an example. What is that
success? Because now you effectively are
not emotionally fulfilled, you're not
happy. But I think it's not only just
for me achieving that personally, but
also playing a part in people around me
achieving that, whether it's my kids
seeing kids, seeing them become great
professionals one day and great human
beings and having fulfilled lives and
achieving their full potential to people
I work with whether it's my team or
colleagues or people I work for for them
to achieve again their best potential
and doing it while they are emotionally
fulfilled as well.
>> That's beautiful. Thank you for such an
amazing conversation.
>> Thanks Shane. Thanks thanks for having
me.